00-dev-environment/README.md, before:

# Topic 0: Development Environment

<!-- TOC -->

- [Topic 0: Development Environment](#topic-0-development-environment)
  - [Conventions](#conventions)
  - [Lesson 0.1: Setting up your development environment](#lesson-01-setting-up-your-development-environment)
    - [Principle 0.1](#principle-01)
    - [Practice 0.1](#practice-01)
      - [Lab 0.1.1: AWS Access Keys](#lab-011-aws-access-keys)
        - [Option 1: Getting Credentials via STS command](#option-1-getting-credentials-via-sts-command)
          - [Exercise 0.1.1: MFA Script](#exercise-011-mfa-script)
          - [Question 0.1.1: 1](#question-011-1)
          - [Question 0.1.1: 2](#question-011-2)
        - [Option 2: Using AWS Vault to automatically handle your temporary tokens](#option-2-using-aws-vault-to-automatically-handle-your-temporary-tokens)
      - [Lab 0.1.2: GitHub](#lab-012-github)
      - [Lab 0.1.3: Cloud9 Environment](#lab-013-cloud9-environment)
      - [Lab 0.1.4: Clone Repository](#lab-014-clone-repository)
    - [Retrospective 0.1](#retrospective-01)
      - [Question: Environments](#question-environments)
      - [Task](#task)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Conventions

- Do NOT store AWS credentials in code repositories.
  - [Managing access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-access-keys-best-practices.html)
  - [Configuration and credentials files](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html)

- DO use the [AWS documentation and user guides](https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/).

## Lesson 0.1: Setting up your development environment

### Principle 0.1

*A reliable, repeatable process to create your development environment
leads to a solution others can contribute to.*

The following labs will prepare you to work through the Stelligent
new hire training. During the training you
will be using AWS access keys for programmatic access to an AWS account,
GitHub code repositories, and, optionally, AWS Cloud9 for your development environment.

### Practice 0.1

#### Lab 0.1.1: AWS Access Keys

Save your AWS access key and secret key to a private credentials file on your laptop before enabling 
MFA.  You won't be able to retrieve your token if the access key and secret key are not added to your 
credentials file. You will need to [install the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html)
and then run some simple commands to confirm access using your keys:

- [list-buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/list-buckets.html)
- [describe-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-instances.html)

Remember that the combination of an access key and a secret key are
the same as user credentials and should not be given out or stored
in a public location like a GitHub repository, nor should they be
transmitted in an insecure manner like unencrypted email.
_Never_ commit credentials to a git repo.

- [Enable MFA](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_mfa_enable_virtual.html)
  for your AWS account. With MFA enabled you will need to generate temporary
  credentials using your MFA device and STS. You can do this in a few
  ways. The first way would be to request the token from STS via the CLI.

##### Option 1: Getting Credentials via STS command (in the AWS console > [user] > Summary page under "Security credentials" tab, use the value for the "Assigned MFA device"). The token-code is your MFA validation code.

```shell
aws sts get-session-token \
    --serial-number arn:aws:iam::324320755747:mfa/USERNAME \
    --token-code 123456 \
/
```

This will return json containing the temporarily credentials.(**WARNING: special characters in the 'SecretAccessKey' may not work for Windoze machines)  

```shell
"Credentials": {
    "SecretAccessKey": "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY",
    "SessionToken": "AQoDYXdzEJr...<remainder of security token>",
    "Expiration": "2018-10-11T10:09:50Z",
    "AccessKeyId": "ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE",
  }
}
```

Using these temporary credentials you will need to edit your `.aws/credentials`
file and change the security configuration for the profile to be used.

```shell
[temp]
output = json
region = us-east-1
aws_access_key_id = AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
aws_secret_access_key = wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
aws_session_token = AQoDYXdzEJr...<remainder of security token>
```

Now set AWS_PROFILE to temp in your environment variables:

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<temp aws_access_key_id >
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<temp aws_secret_access_key>
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<region>
```

or set the --profile flag to temp when
running awscli:

```shell
aws s3 ls --profile temp
```

You should be able to access any of the resources you're
authorized to in the labs account. These tokens will last approximately
12 hours before needing to be reset using the process above.

##### Exercise 0.1.1: MFA Script

1. Create a script to automate the gathering and assigning of the temporary
  AWS MFA credentials from Option 1.
1. Try to reduce the amount of manual input as much as possible.
Completed getcreds.sh

##### Question 0.1.1: 1

What method did you use to store the aws credentials?  What are some other
options?
Temp File to output

###### Question 0.1.1: 2

Which AWS environment variable cannot be set in order to run the
`aws sts get-session-token` command?
SessionToken because you're fetching it

##### Option 2: Using AWS Vault to automatically handle your temporary tokens

If you would rather not have to manually get STS tokens and add them to your
credentials file you can use [aws-vault](https://github.com/99designs/aws-vault).

Configure the profile that you would like to use using this command:
`aws-vault add MY_PROFILE`

If you accidentally setup aws-vault with a password that you forgot,
you can remove its database (`rm -rf Library/Keychains/aws-vault.keychain-db`)
and start over.

To use aws-vault for temporary credential management is simple. You need to add
the arn of your mfa token to your profiles config in `~/.aws/config` like so:

```shell
[profile MY_PROFILE]
output = json
region = us-east-1
mfa_serial = arn:aws:iam::324320755747:mfa/USERNAME
```

Now you can execute any command using aws-vault. Example:
`aws-vault exec MY_PROFILE -- aws s3 ls`

You want to set an alias in your .bashrc or .zshrc to something like this:
`alias aws-myprofile="aws-vault exec MY_PROFILE -- aws"`

#### Lab 0.1.2: GitHub

1. Create a new repository from the [Stelligent-U repository template](https://github.com/stelligent/stelligent-u/generate)
1. Select the owner of the repository
1. Name the new private repository
1. Generate ssh keys and
  test access. Use [this GitHub guide](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/)
  to get access and clone the private repo to your laptop.

#### Lab 0.1.3: Cloud9 Environment (Optional)

AWS Cloud 9 is a resource to quickly re-create a stock development
environment accessible from almost anywhere in a browser. You can use
the Cloud9 environment to work on the remainder of the Stelligent-U
labs, but it is not required.

Create a new Cloud 9 environment in the region of your preference
(ie: `us-east-1`) in the AWS account using the [AWS user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/welcome.html).
Be sure to note the different options when setting up the environment,
but use the default options for this lab. In Cloud9, run the same AWS
CLI commands as you did in [lab 0.1.1](#lab-011-aws-access-keys):

- `list-buckets`
- `describe-instances`

#### Lab 0.1.4: Clone Repository

Work with your GitHub repo in your development environment. Start
at [step 3 of this user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/sample-github.html#sample-github-install-git)
to configure the Cloud9 instance to work with GitHub.

1. Install git in your development environment.

1. Clone the repository to your Cloud9 environment. To gain
   access to the repository try using either
   [token authentication](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
   or an [SSH key](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/).

### Retrospective 0.1

#### Question: Environments

_Running the two commands in [lab 0.1.1](#lab-011-aws-access-keys) and
[lab 0.1.3](#lab-013-cloud9-environment) should have shown the same
results. What does this tell you about the access the keys give you on
your laptop and the access you have in the Cloud9 environment? What
other methods are there to provide this level of access without using
keys?_

#### Task

Configure Cloud9 to work with the programming language you will be using
to complete the training work. In your Cloud9 Editor, perform the following:

- Please choose either Python, Ruby, Go or NodeJS
- Create a new branch off master
- In the 00-dev-environment directory, develop a small "hello world!"
  application in that language
- Add the files to your new branch, commit them, and push the branch up to
  your forked repository
- Create a pull request from your branch to the master branch within your forked
  repository and merge after reviewing

Commit message:

adding in parameters to start

00-dev-environment/README.md, after:

# Topic 0: Development Environment

<!-- TOC -->

- [Topic 0: Development Environment](#topic-0-development-environment)
  - [Conventions](#conventions)
  - [Lesson 0.1: Setting up your development environment](#lesson-01-setting-up-your-development-environment)
    - [Principle 0.1](#principle-01)
    - [Practice 0.1](#practice-01)
      - [Lab 0.1.1: AWS Access Keys](#lab-011-aws-access-keys)
        - [Option 1: Getting Credentials via STS command](#option-1-getting-credentials-via-sts-command)
          - [Exercise 0.1.1: MFA Script](#exercise-011-mfa-script)
          - [Question 0.1.1: 1](#question-011-1)
          - [Question 0.1.1: 2](#question-011-2)
        - [Option 2: Using AWS Vault to automatically handle your temporary tokens](#option-2-using-aws-vault-to-automatically-handle-your-temporary-tokens)
      - [Lab 0.1.2: GitHub](#lab-012-github)
      - [Lab 0.1.3: Cloud9 Environment](#lab-013-cloud9-environment)
      - [Lab 0.1.4: Clone Repository](#lab-014-clone-repository)
    - [Retrospective 0.1](#retrospective-01)
      - [Question: Environments](#question-environments)
      - [Task](#task)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Conventions

- Do NOT store AWS credentials in code repositories.
  - [Managing access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-access-keys-best-practices.html)
  - [Configuration and credentials files](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html)

- DO use the [AWS documentation and user guides](https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/).

## Lesson 0.1: Setting up your development environment

### Principle 0.1

*A reliable, repeatable process to create your development environment
leads to a solution others can contribute to.*

The following labs will prepare you to work through the Stelligent
new hire training. During the training you
will be using AWS access keys for programmatic access to an AWS account,
GitHub code repositories, and, optionally, AWS Cloud9 for your development environment.

### Practice 0.1

#### Lab 0.1.1: AWS Access Keys

Save your AWS access key and secret key to a private credentials file on your laptop before enabling 
MFA.  You won't be able to retrieve your token if the access key and secret key are not added to your 
credentials file. You will need to [install the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html)
and then run some simple commands to confirm access using your keys:

- [list-buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/list-buckets.html)
- [describe-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-instances.html)

type this to start off with after you create your key
```
aws configure
```

the access id and secreate access key needs to be stored locally

Remember that the combination of an access key and a secret key are
the same as user credentials and should not be given out or stored
in a public location like a GitHub repository, nor should they be
transmitted in an insecure manner like unencrypted email.
_Never_ commit credentials to a git repo.

- [Enable MFA](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_mfa_enable_virtual.html)
  for your AWS account. With MFA enabled you will need to generate temporary
  credentials using your MFA device and STS. You can do this in a few
  ways. The first way would be to request the token from STS via the CLI.

##### Option 1: Getting Credentials via STS command (in the AWS console > [user] > Summary page under "Security credentials" tab, use the value for the "Assigned MFA device"). The token-code is your MFA validation code.

```shell
aws sts get-session-token \
    --serial-number arn:aws:iam::324320755747:mfa/USERNAME \
    --token-code 123456 \
/
```

This will return json containing the temporarily credentials.(**WARNING: special characters in the 'SecretAccessKey' may not work for Windoze machines)  

```shell
"Credentials": {
    "SecretAccessKey": "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY",
    "SessionToken": "AQoDYXdzEJr...<remainder of security token>",
    "Expiration": "2018-10-11T10:09:50Z",
    "AccessKeyId": "ASIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE",
  }
}
```

Using these temporary credentials you will need to edit your `.aws/credentials`
file and change the security configuration for the profile to be used.

```shell
[temp]
output = json
region = us-east-1
aws_access_key_id = AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
aws_secret_access_key = wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
aws_session_token = AQoDYXdzEJr...<remainder of security token>
```

Now set AWS_PROFILE to temp in your environment variables:

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<temp aws_access_key_id >
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<temp aws_secret_access_key>
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<region>
```

or set the --profile flag to temp when
running awscli:

```shell
aws s3 ls --profile temp
```

You should be able to access any of the resources you're
authorized to in the labs account. These tokens will last approximately
12 hours before needing to be reset using the process above.

##### Exercise 0.1.1: MFA Script

1. Create a script to automate the gathering and assigning of the temporary
  AWS MFA credentials from Option 1.
1. Try to reduce the amount of manual input as much as possible.
Completed getcreds.sh

##### Question 0.1.1: 1

What method did you use to store the aws credentials?  What are some other
options?
Temp File to output

###### Question 0.1.1: 2

Which AWS environment variable cannot be set in order to run the
`aws sts get-session-token` command?
SessionToken because you're fetching it

##### Option 2: Using AWS Vault to automatically handle your temporary tokens

If you would rather not have to manually get STS tokens and add them to your
credentials file you can use [aws-vault](https://github.com/99designs/aws-vault).

Configure the profile that you would like to use using this command:
`aws-vault add MY_PROFILE`

If you accidentally setup aws-vault with a password that you forgot,
you can remove its database (`rm -rf Library/Keychains/aws-vault.keychain-db`)
and start over.

To use aws-vault for temporary credential management is simple. You need to add
the arn of your mfa token to your profiles config in `~/.aws/config` like so:

```shell
[profile MY_PROFILE]
output = json
region = us-east-1
mfa_serial = arn:aws:iam::324320755747:mfa/USERNAME
```

Now you can execute any command using aws-vault. Example:
`aws-vault exec MY_PROFILE -- aws s3 ls`

You want to set an alias in your .bashrc or .zshrc to something like this:
`alias aws-myprofile="aws-vault exec MY_PROFILE -- aws"`

#### Lab 0.1.2: GitHub

1. Create a new repository from the [Stelligent-U repository template](https://github.com/stelligent/stelligent-u/generate)
1. Select the owner of the repository
1. Name the new private repository
1. Generate ssh keys and
  test access. Use [this GitHub guide](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/)
  to get access and clone the private repo to your laptop.

#### Lab 0.1.3: Cloud9 Environment (Optional)

AWS Cloud 9 is a resource to quickly re-create a stock development
environment accessible from almost anywhere in a browser. You can use
the Cloud9 environment to work on the remainder of the Stelligent-U
labs, but it is not required.

Create a new Cloud 9 environment in the region of your preference
(ie: `us-east-1`) in the AWS account using the [AWS user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/welcome.html).
Be sure to note the different options when setting up the environment,
but use the default options for this lab. In Cloud9, run the same AWS
CLI commands as you did in [lab 0.1.1](#lab-011-aws-access-keys):

- `list-buckets`
- `describe-instances`

#### Lab 0.1.4: Clone Repository

Work with your GitHub repo in your development environment. Start
at [step 3 of this user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/sample-github.html#sample-github-install-git)
to configure the Cloud9 instance to work with GitHub.

1. Install git in your development environment.

1. Clone the repository to your Cloud9 environment. To gain
   access to the repository try using either
   [token authentication](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
   or an [SSH key](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/).

### Retrospective 0.1

#### Question: Environments

_Running the two commands in [lab 0.1.1](#lab-011-aws-access-keys) and
[lab 0.1.3](#lab-013-cloud9-environment) should have shown the same
results. What does this tell you about the access the keys give you on
your laptop and the access you have in the Cloud9 environment? What
other methods are there to provide this level of access without using
keys?_

#### Task

Configure Cloud9 to work with the programming language you will be using
to complete the training work. In your Cloud9 Editor, perform the following:

- Please choose either Python, Ruby, Go or NodeJS
- Create a new branch off master
- In the 00-dev-environment directory, develop a small "hello world!"
  application in that language
- Add the files to your new branch, commit them, and push the branch up to
  your forked repository
- Create a pull request from your branch to the master branch within your forked
  repository and merge after reviewing
